joakim's love of choux pastry plus his
wild imagination has seen him take the
eclair into
uncharted territory the shoe is like
very very old and traditional
french pastry but the thing is to to
make a modern
dessert you can really play with uh with
a shape you can play with the colors
for the past five years his stunning
edible creations have been sold in a
handful of specialist eclair shops
and his success starts with perfecting
the pastry
so i'm making the choux pastry to make
the cla shell we've got the milk
and the butter so we're gonna bring
everything to the boil
and as soon as it's boiling we put it in
the machine
i grew up with my big brother and my my
mother only the three of us
my mother she was working really hard so
everybody had to do something in the
in in the house so me i went in the
kitchen because yeah i like that
so i got the eggs so we're gonna put it
very slowly
if i pull it too fast the dough is gonna
lose his strength
so it's gonna be too soft and i won't be
able to pipe the eclair
so that's it i always wanted to work in
a kitchen
playing like the scientist you know
so basically when i'm piping you don't
make any pressure on the piping bag
because it's very liquid
so if you push a bit too much it's going
to be too big they're clear
yeah i started in a kitchen when i was
15.
and two years later i went in a pastry
because it was more technical
and more impressive so i wanted to learn
the pastry then as soon as i got into
the pastry i never came back in the
kitchen
so this is what we're looking for
they're really smooth on top
and they're crispy as well
i'm going to empty it properly in order
to put all the garnish inside
so i've been executive pastry chef in
one two and three michelin star
restaurants
to become a good pastry chef i think you
need to love what you're doing and you
need to be really precise as well
so for the filling i'm gonna start some
roasted pistachios
to give some texture what i like the
most is trying new recipes trying
flavors
new techniques joakim's experimentation
has paid off with this extravagant
eclair
he's created a pistachio praline by
first caramelizing and then blending the
nuts
so this is a raspberry compote it's
gonna make the balance it's gonna give
some acidity
it's a vanilla cream layer so it's like
a creme patissiere
this is one of my favorite combinations
basically
so i really love doing it you can
express yourself
think you can be very very creative in
the pastry and you have no limit
you just lighten it with some whipped
cream
berries coriander cress i love using
fruit and herbs together
definitely i think it works very well
and to finish we're just gonna put the
raspberry compote so inside of the
raspberry
so that's it now they finish so i'm
quite happy with them
they look cute nice and fresh
it's really fun doing something
indulgent
for me when i see other people like my
pastries is maybe the most
enjoyable feeling that i can have
i've never loved the look of an eclair
more joakim's skill and creativity are
mind-blowing
you